>> Scott Moss: Okay,
that is actually the end of the road here.
I'm leave the floor open now for
anyone to ask questions about any
advanced stuff we didn't get to.
There's so much stuff that's out
there that we didn't get to.
Like I said, we have fragments,
we have persistent queries, we have
interfaces enums, there's so many
different things that GraphQL can also do,
it can accomplish that we didn't get to.
We didn't talk about fetching data from
different sources inside of a resolver and
strategies for that, caching,
using data loader, tons of stuff there.
So if you always ask about
that let me know because if
you think about using GraphQL I can help
answer some of those questions that you or
your company might be having.
And then there's also different ways you
can deploy GraphQL servers where there's
a traditional server
like we built today and
there's different strategies
associated with that.
So there's some trade-offs,
there's some technologies involved.
There are different things
you can use on the client.
Different third party tools out there that
you can use to build stuff right now,
without having to build your own thing.
So this is your chance,
if anybody's got anything.
>> Speaker 2: Do you use Apollo for
most of your projects?
>> Scott Moss: I use Apollo for
everything.
I use the Apollo for the backing.
I use Apollo for the client.
It's just, to me, personally,
it's just the best thing so far.
They have, for the clients,
they have implementation every where from
React Native all the way
to view on the front end.
Whatever you can think of they have
some type of implementation for
it and it's pretty good.
And they just released 2.0,
where it's even faster now.
And it's only getting better.
They're literally dedicated just for that.
They also have like a tool
where it's like analytics and
performance measurement built
into your GraphQL service.
So you can see like on what resolvers,
what's taking forever, what's doing,
what on that level.
So it's really good.
I would say they're close as you can get
other than being a creators of GraphQL
that yourself.
>> Scott Moss: Anything else?
>> Scott Moss: No,
do we have any questions online?
Mark?
>> Mark: I don't know,
I wasn't really paying attention.
I can take a look.
>> Scott Moss: All right,
let's make sure I get those.
>> Mark: No, looks good.
>> Scott Moss: No?
Okay, cool.
No questions online.
I will say going for it, try GraphQL.
It's really easy to get started.
Give it a try, build a simple to do
app with it or whatever you wanna do.
But I will say definitely try it out,
get lost in it.
Try it out with your favorite database.
You don't have to use
Mongo as you can tell.
You can use whatever you want.
You don't even have to use the database.
You can use like something
hosted somewhere else.
GraphQL doesn't care where
the data's coming from.
You can do it from memory if you want.
But just try it out.
I recommend it.
And see where it goes.
My opinion is that GraphQL is sort,
or graph API's in general are just
gonna completely wipe out REST.
GraphQL is the leading graph API.
There's also other graph APIs
out there that are like, okay.
One of them was one that was created
by Netflix, it's called Falcore.
It's been in developer preview for
like, two years.
I'm actually a contributor to it, me and
my friend Patrick, but
it's not really moving anywhere.
So, but it's proved that there
are other graph API's out there.
And I think that approach
is a lot better to building
the applications that we build today
using components and stuff like that.
So I will highly recommend like at least
getting your feet a little
more wet with GraphQL.
Building out some really
cool stuff with it.
Maybe even contributing to some stuff,
because you can pretty much do anything.
Like I said there's a plug in called
GraphQL anywhere that literally allows you
to use GraphQL queries to build anything,
you can generate a whole React
app with a GraphQL query.
Its kinda ridiculous
if you think about it.
There's also like a static
site generator called, men,
why can't I remember the name of it.
It's based on React, but
they basically use GraphQL to build
a static site, which is pretty crazy.
So there's a lot of stuff out
there you can do at GraphQL.
I recommend getting involve in
the community, building some stuff.
There's way more in there,
there's directives.
How much other stuff you can check out.
So I recommend getting into it.
And just having fun.
If you have any questions,
you guys can hit me up.
You can find me here on the Twitter's.
>> Scott Moss: @scotups.
So there you go.
You can find me right there.
And yeah, you can see up on there.
I'll probably respond.
If I don't just hit me up on GitHub.
I'll probably respond on there as well.
Other than that, thanks for coming.
Thanks, Frontend Masters.
Thanks, Mark.
I really had a good time
teaching this class.
This is something I'm really passionate
about, with GraphQL and backend.
Even though people know me for
doing front end stuff,
I'm usually like on
the backend like all the time.
I just really like doing animations and
stuff.
But I also like working on the backend.
So I had a blast doing this.
Thanks.
>> Group: [APPLAUSE]